The next piece that we'll set up in our controllers will be the create,
update, and delete API endpoints for the sessions and the speakers.
So I've opened up the SessionsController, and we'll go ahead and start there.
Let's begin by creating the create method,
so this will create a new session,
and if you pass a session info to the API endpoint,
it'll create a new session into the database.
At the bottom of the controller, I'm simply going to add this new method.
We'll import any missing classes, and let's take a look at what's happening.
So the first thing that you should notice is that we're using an @PostMapping.
This is saying that we're requiring the HTTP verb POST
to be presented with this API call.
We did not give it a request mapping because,
essentially, we're posting to the base part of the class,
which is the api/v1/sessions endpoint, using the POST verb.
Now here's where it will get interesting.
In the create parameter section, we've had an @RequestBody annotation,
and then we have a session object that's passed in.
What is happening here is Spring MVC is taking in all of
the attributes in a JSON payload and automatically
marshaling them into a session object.
Once it does this, we can simply pass that to our SessionRepository,
which is part of Spring Data JPA, and we can save and flush that.
A quick note on save and flush.
When you're using JPA and entities,
you can save objects as you're working with it,
but it actually doesn't get committed to the database until you flush it.
So the SessionRepository and the JPA repositories,
in general,
provide this one method that will do the save and the flush all
at once as you pass in JPA entities to it.
The next endpoint I'm going to create is the DELETE endpoint.
Here's the method implementation for that.
Let's talk about the annotations.
The @RequestMapping is specifying that you need to pass in an id similar to
what we did on the GET saying that you have to have an id,
but we're also adding a different HTTP method to this
using the request method DELETE.
So this requires the HTTP verb DELETE presented with this API endpoint.
You might ask why we don't just call @DeleteMapping,
and that's because Spring only provides @GetMappings and @PostMappings.
If you use a different verb,
you have to specify it in the RequestMapping attributes.
Again, the parameter for the DELETE takes in an id,
and this is pulled off of the PathVariable,
similar to the GET.
And once we have the id of the record that we're going to delete,
we can, again, call the Spring Data JPA repository to delete it by the id.
I've added a comment here,
and this is just applicable to anytime you're deleting records in a
database with JPA that you'll have to deal with cascades.
So for example, if the session has children records,
this would not allow it to delete.
We'll get a foreign key constraint violation when we
issue the DELETE call to the database.
One thing that you can do for extra credit or homework
would be to put in logic that allows the deleting of the
children records for sessions.
And there's a few ways you can do this.
I'm not going to give you any hints on that,
but it'll give you the ability to research it and try a few things on your own.
But just keep in mind that this will only delete session repositories
without any children records at this current implementation.
Finally, let's look at an implementation for updating a session record.
So I've pasted in the actual update implementation.
I'm going to open the screen here so we have a little
bit more room to see what's going on.
First, let's begin with the @RequestMapping annotation.
Again, we're requiring the id on the URL,
similar to the DELETE and the GET endpoint.
And at this point, we're changing the method to an HTTP verb PUT.
One note on REST implementations.
When you're updating a record, you have two verbs that you can choose from.
You can choose from the PUT and the PATCH verb.
It's kind of up to you how you want to implement them.
But typically,
the PUT will replace all of the attributes on the record that you're updating,
and the PATCH will allow just a portion of the attributes to be updated.
So this implementation will take all of the attributes in on the request body
for that session and replace them all on the database record.
Jumping down to line 42 here, let's take a look at what's happening.
So in order to update a record, we first need to get the existing one.
So we're asking the SessionRepository to find the record by the id,
which is coming off of the URL parameter.
We're storing it in a session variable called existingSession,
and next, I'm using the BeanUtils object,
which we still need to import,
and the BeanUtils object takes the existingSession and
copies the incoming session data onto it.
The third parameter on the copyProperties method allows us to
ignore properties on the entities or Java object that we do not
want to copy over from one to the other.
In this case,
we want to ignore the session_id attribute because that's the primary key,
and we don't want to replace it.
If you don't ignore it, you'll essentially copy null onto the primary key.
And when you go to update that onto the database,
that will cause an exception to occur because the primary key cannot be null.
And finally,
we're using the old trusty saveAndFlush method again on the existing session,
which has now been updated with our attributes on our Session JPA repository.
I've added a couple of comments here at the top of the method
implementation just to kind of keep in mind.
First, because this is a PUT, we're expecting all the attributes to be passed in.
If they're not all passed in, those attributes will be updated with null.
If you only need to update certain attributes of your JPA entity,
you should look at implementing the patch version of this update.
And finally, we're not doing any kind of validation.
And since we're requiring all the attributes,
it would probably make sense to check that they're all there.
If they're not, you could return a 400,
which would indicate a bad payload passed to the update API endpoint,
and that's it.
If we take a look at our actual controller now,
we have a full CRUD controller for the sessions.
We have a LIST, a GET, a CREATE, a DELETE,
and an UPDATE,
and this fills out all of our CRUD operations for a proper REST resource,
which in this case, is Sessions.
So again, it's time to pause the video.
I want you to update the SpeakersController with a CREATE,
UPDATE, and DELETE method, similar to what we've done here for the Sessions.
And once you're done, go ahead and turn the video back on,
and we can check my solution with what you've come up with.
Okay, here's what I have for the SpeakersController.
It should look very similar to the SessionsController.
We have a create method implemented.
The only difference is that we're working with Speaker
objects rather than Session objects.
The DELETE method is doing something very similar, just deleting by the id.
Again, note that we're using speakerRepository rather than the sessionRepository.
And finally,
the update is doing pretty much the same thing as the
session update with the main difference that we're using
the Speaker on the RequestBody, and in the ignoreProperties,
we're ignoring the primary key of speaker_id rather than session_id.
At this point,
we pretty much have our micro service conference API
app coded up and ready to test out. That's what we'll do, coming up next!